Shawn Phalen: Hey,
Randy McWilliams: There we go. That was on my end.
Randy McWilliams: Hey there. How are you, yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, the I know I'm just done just now leaving work.
Randy McWilliams: Just crazy times right now we're we're taking our whole operation 100 people in one shelter.
Randy McWilliams: And putting them in hotels in the Bay Area. So I've been over at this hotel.
Randy McWilliams: All day getting busloads people in their belongings and putting them into hotel rooms and feeding them and and we're not even we're not even nearly halfway done with everybody and it's crazy because of this coven thing so
Shawn Phalen: So it has not been indicated that you guys need to do that.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, it's, it's definitely I think it's suggested by
Randy McWilliams: I think it's part of new song governor nuisance plan, but it's definitely part of our counties.
Randy McWilliams: Initiative for distancing and separation and quarantine shelter in place, all of that stuff. So I guess they need the the main shelter par for people who are
Randy McWilliams: tested positive for coven
Randy McWilliams: That's going to be sort of a triage center. It's really scary. It's, it's really crazy and I don't know if we will see an explosion and cases or not. I don't know what to expect.
Randy McWilliams: But it's
Shawn Phalen: I heard Sacramento has more cases than San Francisco.
Randy McWilliams: Mm hmm.
Randy McWilliams: I have no idea how that's worked, except to say that some places have probably been slower than others to ramp up some sort of a protocol and a plan and stuff like that. That's my only gas, but
Randy McWilliams: We unbelievably in my shelter haven't had any positive cases which is thank God, but it's amazing.
Shawn Phalen: So then what does that do for you for work. Are you hard they work hard, they
Randy McWilliams: Yeah. Well, it's an interesting situation and, you know, it's all part of the reason I'm here with you doing this therapy is you know how it's affecting me. It's very stressful.
Randy McWilliams: In terms of work. Thankfully, we will
Randy McWilliams: You know, be able to keep our hours and continue to work. Work considered essential employees by the state. So running this program.
Randy McWilliams: So thankfully will be able to to continue to work, but at the same time.
Randy McWilliams: It's hugely stressful, you know, working with this population. And then, you know, as you know, I live in a sober living environment where there's 15 people right now so
Randy McWilliams: I go from this environment to that environment, it's, it's been a huge stress, but I'm maintaining you know I'm just going going with the flow so far.
Shawn Phalen: Are they making people in the sober living get tested.
Randy McWilliams: Not get tested.
Randy McWilliams: There's been sort of a shelter in place guideline. Most, most of the people there are not working, anyway.
Randy McWilliams: Though they're not leaving
Randy McWilliams: A handful of us are working and the people that do work are working in
Randy McWilliams: Businesses that are still operating a couple of the guys or get like a mini mart for a gas station. They're still open, and then I of course work for this homeless program which is open, so
Randy McWilliams: We're just, you know, the main thing for me.
Randy McWilliams: Is just constant cleaning. I have. I've managed to get my my hands on disinfectant.
Randy McWilliams: And I've been making cleaner with bleach and water, and I've been spraying down door knobs and touch points every chance I get, you know, I'm wearing a mask.
Randy McWilliams: every chance I get I'm washing my hands and sanitizing that's really the best I can do.
Shawn Phalen: And I think that's all you can do.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, it is, it is for anybody.
You know, and it's
It is stressful, you know, with the population that you
Randy McWilliams: That you work with. Yeah, and even your living situation to, you know,
Shawn Phalen: If people are following protocol and doing you know the cleaning and the hand Washington the masks and all that.
Shawn Phalen: You know, according to the CDC, that should be
Randy McWilliams: Sufficient right
Randy McWilliams: But just you just, you know, you hope everybody's doing it. You know, you know. I just know in my house.
Randy McWilliams: We're pretty religious here. We're about doing that stuff. But at my house.
Randy McWilliams: Not everybody's constantly cleaning like I do.
Randy McWilliams: So I it does, it has to be done by everybody. I guess to suppresses virus overall
Randy McWilliams: But I'm an interesting side note about it all is my girlfriend and I have
Randy McWilliams: Been talking about trying to move into a
Randy McWilliams: Apartment together. So we've been looking around the past couple of weeks trying to find a decent deal which would be nice. So it would be very nice. I would love to be able to do that sooner than later. Yeah. Um, but, and you know, I think it would be a huge step.
Randy McWilliams: In the right direction for us.
Randy McWilliams: And just especially with everything going on, it would be perfect timing to get out of this environment, but
Randy McWilliams: Don't want to rush any push anything too much. So just taking our time looking, you know, it's got to be the right fit.
Shawn Phalen: Right, so
Randy McWilliams: Have you found anything. Are there things available that yeah there's actually surprisingly a lot of places still available and they're looking to rent. They're looking for people to move in right away. I imagine there's probably
Randy McWilliams: A lot of people
Randy McWilliams: That are just kind of sitting tight through this thing right now. So there's probably a lot of open inventory. I'm guessing I don't really know, but there are a lot of things out there. It's just so expensive in this area. It's out ragingly expensive so
Randy McWilliams: Take some time to find something that's the right price, first and foremost, you know,
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, and I would take your time on that. I would
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, you know, I would
Randy McWilliams: Find what's going to work for both of you. Right.
Shawn Phalen: You know, put some numbers to it, do a budget.
Randy McWilliams: Right, make sure that this is something that's not going to
Shawn Phalen: stress you out trying to
Randy McWilliams: Make the rent and
Shawn Phalen: Try and have money set aside for emergencies, that kind of thing. You know what
Exactly.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, price range and, you know,
Shawn Phalen: You know, make it like this fun adventure. Yeah.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah yeah
Randy McWilliams: Exactly, that's trying to I'm trying to look at it that way. And I think she has to, you know, it, it's, it is, you know, it's our next next adventure together and
Randy McWilliams: You know, but definitely as
Randy McWilliams: You know, concerned about the money and the budgeting and having enough, like you said, for emergencies and
Randy McWilliams: Not getting ourselves into a situation where we're so strapped that we can't even afford a new tires or something when it comes up so badly. Right. Absolutely. You got to save for that rainy day.
Randy McWilliams: Well, that's exciting. Yeah, yeah. That is good. Yeah, you were you the one that brought it up or did she bring it in.
Randy McWilliams: Well, we've talked about it in the past before just didn't passing and
Randy McWilliams: You know, never really serious and I've never really wanted to the bush.
Randy McWilliams: But I brought it up recently again.
Randy McWilliams: And then with this shelter in place thing she lives with roommates as well. And it's been very stressful to be, you know, stuck in a house with people 24 seven and
Randy McWilliams: She's not working right now, which is one thing. She's got a lot saved but her jobs. Well, she is, I take that back. She is still working three days a week for conservator. But, um,
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, so I kind of brought it up again and then she addressed it a few weeks ago that she'd like to look start looking, you know, and so I of course immediately thought let's find something today and
Randy McWilliams: It's gonna take some time.
Randy McWilliams: Right, it's good, you know,
Shawn Phalen: What What areas are you guys looking in.
Randy McWilliams: The area we're in now you know this Walnut Creek conquered area outside San Francisco where, you know, an average one bedroom is 1900 dollars plus right though you do find some that are decent you know that are you know 16 1700 dollars, they're rare.
Randy McWilliams: But you do see some now and again that's kind of what we're looking at. As long as it's in a decent area isn't a good complex yeah you know it all you oftentimes pay for what you get. So we have to be really careful about that to
Randy McWilliams: Me know
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, you know, they don't have rank control there, you know,
Randy McWilliams: Oh my god, they need it. It's only a matter of time before the issue has to come up because with all this stuff going on and right. My God above like you would think I know la still have la house right control and yeah
Shawn Phalen: Nice areas that are around control but
Randy McWilliams: Absolutely, you know, words are gonna be hurting like
Shawn Phalen: People can't afford to pay their rent.
Shawn Phalen: Right. So it's like, I don't know, it's just it's annoying.
Randy McWilliams: And they want a lot of these places want three times.
Randy McWilliams: The income. I mean that's almost impossible. That's, that's crazy. You know, I mean, so it's all about finding the right landlord to know
Randy McWilliams: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: That's exciting. Okay, so what's going on with school then
Randy McWilliams: School still going schools. It's crazy, they've shut it down for the rest of the academic year. It's
Randy McWilliams: Probably going to be shut down through
Randy McWilliams: Fall. I'm guessing.
Randy McWilliams: But they've moved everything online. So most of my all of my classes are doing this zoom platform and it's working out. Okay, it's
Randy McWilliams: It's been a huge change to get used to it because I used to really love in my classmates talk about it to really loved going to campus being in class interacting collaborating. So it's really hard to get used to this socialites solace isolationism and
Randy McWilliams: You know, and the zoom classes and stuff.
Randy McWilliams: But they seem to be working. So far, just with everything.
Randy McWilliams: Everything that's been going on. It's been such a huge stress for everybody.
Randy McWilliams: You know, and it has been for me, too. It's been hard for me to wrap my head. You know hundred percent around some of the school work. You know, like I have in the past, but I'm maintaining the grades and
Randy McWilliams: You know that's that's all I can kind of expect myself right we're all just trying to get through this thing.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah and you know that's really what you know what I've been telling my clients. It's like this is out of our control.
Randy McWilliams: Control over this. We do not know when the end date is going to, you know, we're at the end of April.
Randy McWilliams: Right, it might go into may be probably well maybe longer
Randy McWilliams: I know
Shawn Phalen: It's sort of, you know, it's not. It's like preparing yourself for this.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, and to be
It's almost like a way of like resetting yourself and
Randy McWilliams: You know, um,
Shawn Phalen: It's a lesson in patience.
Internally and
Introspection being
Randy McWilliams: Like there's so many different lessons with what's happening here. So yeah, world is almost being reset. Yeah, it's about
Shawn Phalen: You know, finding things to come to do to keep you, but doing it in a different way. Right.
Shawn Phalen: Reading a book playing a board game.
Shawn Phalen: Can you guys go for walks out there.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, yeah, we're able to still go for walks. Exactly. Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Going for a walk.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, like it's stuff that we did before the internet and cell phones. Exactly. It is. It's like the good old days, forced on us.
Shawn Phalen: Not staying up until two or three in the morning on your tablet or your phone.
Randy McWilliams: I know
Randy McWilliams: That we have not done for
Randy McWilliams: Decades and oh yeah probably longer I know no so
Shawn Phalen: as frustrating as it is. And as scary as it is, you know, you just have to take the precautions that you're already
Randy McWilliams: Taking and
Randy McWilliams: You know,
Shawn Phalen: What I'm telling clients to stay off social media stay off.
Randy McWilliams: As much as you can. I mean, be informed.
And listen to
This stuff that their
People
Randy McWilliams: And it's, it's
Randy McWilliams: A it's increasing people's anxiety. Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: They're in the business of instilling fear. There's sensational ization
Shawn Phalen: Right. Yeah, so stay off of it as much as you possibly can.
Shawn Phalen: Right. Um, keep washing their hands washing wearing gloves do
Randy McWilliams: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: What about meetings are you doing those online.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, you know, I haven't been to as many just because I've been trying to keep up with some of my schoolwork, and between the work schedule but
Randy McWilliams: They do do them online. Dave put a lot of the local meetings on zoom as well. So it's just kind of trying to get used to a new work schedule that's been kind of sporadic and then
Randy McWilliams: Getting getting a grip on my schoolwork, and then, yeah, I will be attending once I get hopefully get a better word team down amidst all this chaos is crazy, because I'm working
Shawn Phalen: My job, my clinic.
Shawn Phalen: skeleton crew so we're
Shawn Phalen: Wrapping everything I'm doing is phone
Randy McWilliams: Ready.
Shawn Phalen: All my individual sessions and group sessions.
Right.
Randy McWilliams: That's crazy. Hey, is it like
You know, like today, I forgot a client, like I just completely like
Randy McWilliams: That, you know, so using examples of like I'm experiencing the same thing. And it's exactly it's going to just take
Shawn Phalen: Just some more getting used to. And we're P occupied because we're worried and we're
Randy McWilliams: Focused because it is
Randy McWilliams: And
Shawn Phalen: So just keep grounding yourself as much as you possibly can. Getting I'm taking walks every day. Sometimes
Randy McWilliams: Right, I can. Yeah, getting out in nature, doing not kind of stuff and absolutely. You know, you just have to
Randy McWilliams: Have to adapt and get through it. Absolutely. And I love taking the walks. I've lived my girlfriend. We've taken some walks, of course, six feet apart but
Randy McWilliams: But word walking at least we're walking because it's really, really a test to get through all this. But, um, yeah, you do. You gotta just adapt, but it is tough. You're right. You forget things
Randy McWilliams: I'm off my game, so to speak, totally was with a lot of different things. And it's like, I'm just trying to find myself just trying to keep up.
Randy McWilliams: With with obligations right now is what I'm doing. And so it's weird.
Shawn Phalen: When you have all your clients when all the people are in the hotels and do you are you touching base with them. Is that how this
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, and that's how we'll keep our job. It's the weirdest thing. So we're putting all these folks in hotel rooms and then we will have
Randy McWilliams: One of the rooms as a cause I
Randy McWilliams: Temporary office that we're working out of. So then we will there'll be different shifts all day and night, working out of this room, and we'll go check on the clients and feed take them dinners and lunches and whatnot.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, it's gonna be a real test on the clients. Yeah. You'd be busy. Oh yeah, it's gonna be very busy.
Randy McWilliams: So,
Randy McWilliams: You've got a job. Definitely. There's a lot of
Randy McWilliams: People that file for unemployment. That's insane. And you know, when they told me a few weeks ago, this might happen. The first thing I thought of as
Randy McWilliams: We're all going to get laid off that they're going to put the clients in hotel rooms and they'll be in hotel rooms and will be laid off and
Randy McWilliams: And so I thought, the first thing I thought is, I'll run down to the local grocery store, they're hiring on the spot because of this madness going on at the stores and
Randy McWilliams: So I was kind of preparing myself for having the gap even more during this thing, but thankfully
Shawn Phalen: Thankfully here. Clean your super you know because
Randy McWilliams: This could have just been awful. If you are still using right you know. It's crazy.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, it would have been a nightmare it. I don't know. I can't even imagine it because it was last year around this time when I was really in will it was exactly last year at this time that I was in my last few weeks of a horrible relapse before I got helped out of it and
Randy McWilliams: And I was, um, it could have been really ugly because I ended up getting kicked out of a room. I was running
Randy McWilliams: And I would have been in real trouble. When I think about it now. And it's interesting you say that because
Randy McWilliams: Not just that specific relapse and thank God I am sober. Now, I've been having a lot of like really intrusive memories come in about things that I've done.
Randy McWilliams: You know, just about really shitty things that I used to do when I was using and drinking and all that.
Randy McWilliams: I just don't know why it's been strange
Randy McWilliams: Why, they've been kind of popping in
Randy McWilliams: Now, but every once in a while. Just think of something, how I was at a certain time in my life when I was using it a mess.
Randy McWilliams: But I just try to use those reflections as as thank God I'm not
Randy McWilliams: Right, I'm not. Now I'm not that person now right
Shawn Phalen: Exactly. And also, it wouldn't hurt to
Randy McWilliams: Talk about some of those intrusive thoughts, either with me or your sponsor because yeah being base. Yeah. And yeah, you want to make sure that you're not carrying around shame and guilt, definitely, which is obviously
Randy McWilliams: You know that's what happens right first that you get from your
Randy McWilliams: You know, even in sobriety. So just make sure that you are on top of some of that if you feel like it's necessary to talk about it. Yeah, it's a good idea to to do that. Yeah.
Because the shame and the guilt.
Randy McWilliams: They do something to. Yeah, they do. You know, it's
Randy McWilliams: You don't want that inside you. You want to get that out right you know whether it's journaling, however you want to do it. Just, just make sure that your
Randy McWilliams: Don't let a creep up on you right that's the fully aware to absolutely
Shawn Phalen: And those thoughts are actually really come in.
Randy McWilliams: I'm sure you know it's common and sobriety well with you know and and you have you've got a little bit of time and
Randy McWilliams: You might still have you might continue to have some of those, like, oh my god. Exactly, remembering this right now.
Randy McWilliams: And also school can bring some of that stuff up to
Randy McWilliams: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: What papers that you have to write or assignments that you're doing or group projects or
Randy McWilliams: Definitely, that kind of stuff. So yeah, you're on top of it.
Randy McWilliams: I think that's good advice. Not to carry it with me. No, don't carry with you. Right. Okay, so let's
Randy McWilliams: Like one another, like a month doesn't work. Sure.
How about me for
Randy McWilliams: 630 that's perfect. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: All right. Hey, stay safe.
Shawn Phalen: You too. All right.
Randy McWilliams: You too. Thank you. And I'll yeah stay healthy. Stay safe all I'll talk to you in a month, hopefully things will be a little better. No kidding.
Randy McWilliams: Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Take care.
Bye.
Shawn Phalen: Hey, can you hear me.
Shawn Phalen: Can you hear me.
Rhonda: Better
Rhonda: Yeah, okay.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, good. Hey,
Rhonda: How, how are you good. How are you doing,
Rhonda: I'm good.
Rhonda: I'm good. I am a recovering from an
Rhonda: Infection. I had some kind of bite insect bite on my, on my chest and it turned into a really bad infection. So I'm coming out of that. But other than that, I'm doing good. Yeah, you do have to go to the hospital know Dr paster Samia online and p
Rhonda: prescribed antibiotics.
Rhonda: And
Rhonda: So I wouldn't have to go in
Shawn Phalen: What do you think bit you
Rhonda: Some kind of spider.
Rhonda: My whole boot my boob was as big.
Rhonda: As a
Rhonda: half dollar. It was right on my boo.
Rhonda: Yeah I don't know right must be my bed somewhere. I'm going to have to strip everything down and wash it out. Yeah.
Rhonda: I'm
Rhonda: Doing all right i
Rhonda: I also, I went in to get an MRI for my neck and they're gonna have to put me in a different I guess the machine here is real small so
Rhonda: They wheeled my head in there and there's no like room at all. I mean I got extremely cross cluster, probably, and I couldn't do it. So they're going to send me up to a different hospital work. So larger machine.
Rhonda: Because they'd have to literally squeeze me in there. It was pretty, I just, I, I didn't realize I was that claustrophobic till I get in there and I couldn't move right yes I gotta get out of here, please help me out.
Rhonda: I gotta get that done. And once I get that done on then. No, no more about what's up with my neck. So, okay.
Shawn Phalen: How are you doing with everything else that's going on.
Rhonda: I'm pretty good. I've been trying to stay inside not go out too much social distancing quite a bit and
Rhonda: Staying away from sick people, and
Rhonda: But I was not doing doing pretty good. I mean, we had a family meeting my, my brother in law's of psychologists and so he had he does zoom. Now, I guess he so my whole family went on, zoom, where they all live in different areas.
Rhonda: We got we're going to start doing that, once a week. We all got together and talked to see how everyone's doing. And that was kind of cool. It's really cool. Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: I know people are doing that more and more with this.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, you know, like
A great weekend.
Rhonda: Yeah, it is. It really is. And then we get to see my family. So yeah, that's really good. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: So who are the groups, everything
Rhonda: Oh yeah, I love my group I Dr pastors group is pretty good. I like it. Okay. I really like it. So medications are they doing okay yeah it's, I'm not a sick anymore. I just, he gave me a different kind like a lower dose and a different
Rhonda: Sub solve or something like that. And I only take like a third or half of one twice a day.
Rhonda: And it seems better. I still need the nausea medicine, though, because it does make me a little bit nauseous, but it does help. It does. It helps
Rhonda: Yeah, you seem like you're good. Yeah. Yes, I am seem like Oh good. Yeah, you've got energy and make your, your some things shifted feels like something's moved in a positive direction. Yeah, it has. And my son is doing well. I have a son has schizophrenia and he's taking his medication.
Rhonda: He's getting his shot every month. And it makes it a little easier to deal with him and
Rhonda: And, you know, so that part's good I'm his pay or pay and so he when he's honest medicine, he's just not as as
Rhonda: Out there like delusional or anything like that. And he's more centered. He's grocery shopping more he lives on his own. And so that part whenever he's doing better. You know, it makes life a little easier for me to. Well, I can tell. So
Shawn Phalen: How did you get him to go back on medication because he he wasn't taking it right
Rhonda: No, he wasn't he resisted for a long time. I basically just kind of said that, you know,
Rhonda: Because he would, he would disturb everybody around so much that nobody wants to be around him and I basically said, you're not going to be spending the night here and I don't want you coming over to my house.
Rhonda: SCREAMING AND YELLING like you are, you know, you can't do that unless you're medicated I said it's not, you can't ever see me. It's just, you can't come over here, raise hell.
Rhonda: It just because you don't want to take your shot. So you and if you want to get your money you're better off to get your, your shot and then
Rhonda: I said, when you get your shot think your life just seems to turn around for the better. And so he's, he also gets rewarded for mental health. They give them a shopping cart or something like that, when he gets it done so.
Rhonda: He's been everyone's telling him how well he's doing so nice. Yeah, yeah, it's a lot better.
Shawn Phalen: So he lives alone. So he's able to live alone.
Rhonda: Yeah, he has it chess, and he lives alone and he's got a really good worker. She's a friend of mine, and he's really happy with her and doing that stuff. So yeah, he's, he's a
Rhonda: much better, much, much, it's like night and day when they get on. It's just a monthly shot is all it is in Vegas is Dana.
Rhonda: Was he resistant because of the side effects or just because he just didn't want to have the shots. Um, he said it made him tired a lot, but I think that I taught reminded him that
Rhonda: The side effects go away after a while, that the that the benefit outweighs everything else. I said, because
Rhonda: He didn't said he didn't like the side effects is just, but you know what I mean he I guess he's getting a lot of positive input from a lot of people. Nice. So, yeah. Oh, cool. He wouldn't be able to keep up with the pill every day. Yeah, so they just give them a shot. Yeah, it's a month.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, it's, it's so much easier if they can do that.
Rhonda: A lot of times they will go into denial, you know, they don't want it and they don't want they
Rhonda: You know, they just don't want to do it a lot of times they'll feel better. And then they think they don't need it. And then they stop and it goes right back down. He did compensates, you know, gets locked up.
Rhonda: Right, so
Rhonda: And he's better
Rhonda: You know people that have mental illness. Don't want to have mental you know they don't know, they certainly don't you just really don't think
Rhonda: He's real happy because he's been getting work to he's been getting some work and he's thinking about going to work for this particular
Rhonda: Thing called GH outreach for disabled people and then he's been doing yard work and different things to make cash.
Rhonda: And he's gonna get a bike and he wants to ride a bike around town instead of walk. I'm nervous about that because he's not really good on a bike and I worry about a safety, but if it's a three wheeler like he's talking about getting and he has a helmet, then it's okay.
Rhonda: So does he take public transportation. He has before. Yes. He'll take it is that are all drive him or his worker will drive them okay so yeah okay it's he can take a bus to you can. Mm hmm.
Shawn Phalen: And then. Okay, so you're his pay. That's, that's good.
Rhonda: Yeah, and my other boy. He's in San Quentin right now and he gets out, man. He's wanting to come up here, but I'm really apprehensive about him coming up here because he has a tendency to get into trouble quite a bit and I just don't want any of that around right now.
Shawn Phalen: What
Rhonda: I honestly I love him. He said he's locked up for something to do with drugs. I don't know. He got burglarized or did something, I don't know, and
Rhonda: I feel bad because he he really wants to be around family, but at the same time, I just said, if you can find a place, a clean and sober home somewhere where you can come up here and
Rhonda: Do the things that you're supposed to do to stay. Keep your life straight, that's fine. But I said I can't have you living with me, and I certainly can't have
Rhonda: Don't want any trouble right you know up here so i'm not i mean i miss them terribly but I'm not sure if I want them close actually
Rhonda: Because of all the trouble that they've caused in the past the drama and all the I still want that. I don't want to be part of that stuff anymore. I love them but I mean he needs to make a life for himself and be happy, you know, and so
Shawn Phalen: Has he been in and out of prison.
Rhonda: Yes, he well actually not prison just jail but prison was the first time and with prison. And then my other son. Yes, my other son went to prison and he's getting out off a parole in about a month so
Rhonda: He got messed up and drugs, they both got my methamphetamine, and it caused a lot of problems for their life. So right and
Rhonda: I just don't want any part of that. Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Any mental health issues with the one that's in San Quentin right now.
Rhonda: Yes, actually my other two sons, they supposedly
Rhonda: The, the one in San Quentin has skits oh effect disorder. And then the other one has an undifferentiated schizophrenia.
Rhonda: But it and I'm really confused as to why they have it. And you know why so many of my kids out of it. And the only thing I can think of is that because my other my brother has it is that they
Rhonda: Did drop the methamphetamines I still don't know to this day. If it's the drugs that brought it out or it's really hard to say, but well and sometimes math can
Shawn Phalen: Create drug induced psychosis and
Rhonda: Yes. And so that that could pop that could be what it might be that as well and sometimes
Shawn Phalen: Even after they've stopped using and even after they're on medication. They don't come back to baseline.
Rhonda: No, no. Yeah, he never did. Yeah. Never did yeah and
Shawn Phalen: There's also spice. You know, people smoke spice, which is a
They call it a synthetic marijuana
Shawn Phalen: It's really like an incense. It's a highly toxic that
Rhonda: Oh, I've never heard of that. Yeah. Other younger people doing that now or
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, and I'm not sure how popular it is now. I mean, it was pretty big you know couple years back I don't hear a tongue. I don't hear a lot about it, but I have worked with people that did smoke it. And now our skits. A friend Nick.
Rhonda: Oh, wow. See, I think it can bring it out at the gym genetic predisposition is already there. I believe that especially drugs like math and stuff like that can bring it out. Yeah, it can bring it out. Absolutely.
Shawn Phalen: So you know if. Do you feel like you've got good boundaries with your son that's coming home or getting now.
Rhonda: I do they don't live close to me and I'm nervous about thought of them living close to me but i i did Alan on for years. Alan on Save my but
Rhonda: I mean as far as how to set good boundaries because, you know, actually, as a parent, that's the toughest thing.
Rhonda: To do with a drug addict, because you actually can hurt them more than you help them when you enable them. So I like them to have consequences of their own.
Rhonda: Actions instead of to bail them out, you know, all the time. So I learned about a lot of stuff like that. And I do, but then it's always the mother thing you know well
Rhonda: It's those boundaries. I have to keep them clear but love them from a distance, if you know what I mean, I'm not responsible for them anymore so
Shawn Phalen: So it makes your life easier to not have him.
Shawn Phalen: near you.
Rhonda: Yeah, I mean, I want to see them, but I don't want them. I don't want trouble. I still want any trouble. Right. You know, so
Rhonda: I mean, I told I told him if he's going to come up here. Then he needs to get into a recovering home.
Rhonda: Or go to a town close by that, you know, he. There's a lot of places you could move but not not with me but
Isn't it
Shawn Phalen: Isn't it a requirement that they won't guess it's not a requirement, but many of them go to sober living after they've been really
Rhonda: Yeah, yeah, he could probably do that.
Rhonda: Sometimes that's a requirement of their probation, sir. Yeah, it, it will probably also depend on the terms of his release, and once he's released. What's going to be expected of him because he will have to check in with his P. Oh.
Rhonda: Yeah, well, I get tested.
Rhonda: So that part. You know that one son, the middle son is in complete denial about it. He doesn't think he has it, and he refuses medicine for it.
Rhonda: When he went to prison. He took it. But now he does. He just doesn't think he has it he refuses to as long as he's refusing and in denial that really makes me nervous on having them, you know, around because of that. Yeah, yeah.
Shawn Phalen: And that you know that can be your rule. It's like you have to be on medication for me.
Rhonda: Yeah, that's it. Yeah. Like there's just no other way, like, yeah, those are my boundaries like
Shawn Phalen: And, you know, of course, you can't make somebody take medication, but at least he knows, like, hey, this is what you're requiring just because of all the stuff that's happened in the past.
Rhonda: Yes, my, my
Shawn Phalen: My boundary is that if you want to be with me or be near me. You have to be on medication if you're going to be in my life where I see you on a consistent basis. I can't do that unless you're on meds.
Rhonda: Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. So yeah, they do know that and I but Travis won't accept those terms, so he can stay down there as far as I'm concerned, and
Rhonda: I don't
Shawn Phalen: Is he the one that's in San Quentin right now.
Rhonda: No, that's he he's out he's down there and but he gets off parole in about it next month, I think, and He's down. He's living down in Sacramento area.
Shawn Phalen: Helens even I'm hero.
Rhonda: Three years. Yeah, three years.
Rhonda: Any work.
Rhonda: Um, I said. They said he gets off next month. I'm surprised, but I mean, because the fact that he's not taking the medicine or doing things he needs to do. I, I guess he still gets off. He's must be doing something right. So,
Rhonda: But the other one is is getting out in May and he's the one his social worker called me up and she wanted to know if
Rhonda: You know, it's possible for him to get transferred up here. And I said, well, I can't be responsible for him and I said if he can get into a sober living environment or somewhere up here that's between you guys in him, but I said I can't
Rhonda: Have him at my place to live, or anything like I don't want that stuff around me, and I told her that. So she wanted the addresses of different places, but I didn't really have it at the time. So I haven't given it to her yet.
Rhonda: But he's the one he just missed his family. He's taking a shot. Now, every month there, he does. And she said, he's more stable. Now, the nice ever been for a long time.
Rhonda: But I still
Rhonda: You know, I've seen him do that before he's been conserved, actually. So yeah, he has been conserved. So he he definitely would need to stay medicated and to stay out of trouble. So no doubt about it.
Shawn Phalen: Is everything court order to take medication.
Rhonda: No, only one he was concerned, right. So, I mean, when he was conserved a, you know, it's even that it's hard for them to make them, you know, take it.
Rhonda: You know what I mean. So if unless they're in a facility like unless they're in like stabilized. Mm hmm.
Rhonda: Yeah, it is very difficult because there's more for them down there, actually, that really is a lot more for them down there as far as like even if the mental hospital down there. They had a program for live in
Rhonda: People, where they had in their 90 days and then they place them out, out in the home transitional living for group homes or whatever they have more available down there. They up. Then they have here.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, their services are our broader down there, too. I mean, they're better off. I mean, they will have better services, just because
Rhonda: Yeah saleable so it's kind of interesting that she made that suggestion wanting him to be. Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: You're in a small you're you're right at the border, you
Rhonda: Yes, I am. Yeah. Right up here and it's a small town like there's a mental health facility here, but there's no mental hospital here close by any anywhere close by.
Rhonda: I mean, if they were to get locked up for 5150 would probably be in another town.
Rhonda: Like you Rica, or somewhere like that so
Rhonda: Anyway yeah they're better off down there. And I'd like to visit with all I'd like to have all my children come up visit me
Rhonda: I went there last year to see them, but I'd like to, to visit them all of us together but like even
Rhonda: The one up here that stable and my daughter. She doesn't want him around when they're like that she's had to go through a lot of stuff with their brothers and we don't want them. We love them but we don't want the
Rhonda: Involvement or there's always been too much you can, you know, from afar. Yes. Love them from a distance. So yeah, okay.
Shawn Phalen: Um, are we, how often are you wanting to meet remind me.
Rhonda: I think it's once or twice a month or something like that. That's fine with me. Okay, I wouldn't mind that a little bit, you know,
Rhonda: I was going to mental health here, but they're not even doing that right now here because every place.
Places.
Very much.
Rhonda: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Our clinics, you know,
Rhonda: Yeah, the clinic my son's clinic called me and they he wants to get my son scheduled for a face to face on. Tell us. Tell a doctor would tell him, whatever, right like that so
Rhonda: What about April 27 Monday. Okay. Sounds good to me. Yeah, 636 o'clock. Okay. Yeah.
Rhonda: Okay, good. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: All right, well,
Rhonda: Next,
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, hang in there.
Rhonda: And yes, and I'll talk with
Shawn Phalen: You in a couple weeks.
Rhonda: Okay, we'll see. Okay, bye.